# Acoustic dairy cattle dataset

##
This repository provide all code for reproduce the figures of the article and the jaw-movement labels generated automatically.

The publication is available at <a href="https://rdcu.be/dqACQ"> </a> 

The dataset is publicy available at <a href="https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.c.6465301.v1"> </a> 

sinc(i) (Research institute for signals, systems and computational intelligence) - <a href="http://www.sinc.unl.edu.ar"> </a> 

Corresponding author: <a href="lmrau@sinc.unl.edu.ar"> </a> / <a href="luciano.martinezrau@miun.se"> </a> 

## Jaw-movement label generation
The script `adjust_JM_labels.ipynb` was coded in python v3.8.16 using **Google Colab** and perform the following task:
* The timestamps of the jaw-movement labels generated by hand for experts, were automatically adjusted. 
* File containing a single mark of jaw-movement labels were created from the reference labels files provided by experts.
The script `jm_labels_generator.ipynb` was coded in python v3.8.16 using **Google Colab** and generate automatically jaw-movement labels associated with grazing and rumination activities in the audio recordings.

In case of use a different python notebook/environment, the required packaged are listed in `requirements.txt`.


## Figures
The figures of the publication were generated in python with the **matplotlib** and **seaborn** packages.
The input data required to generate the figure are stored in the folder `data`.
The output images are stored in the folder `fig`.

There are individual python notebooks for each figure coded in **Google Colab** (python v3.8.16), called:
* `fig3_histogram_foraging_behaviors.ipynb`
* `fig4_sound_signal.ipynb`
* `fig5_types_JM.ipynb`
* `fig6_sound_quality.ipynb`
* `fig7_parameters_quality.ipynb`

In case of use a different python notebook/environment, the required packaged are listed in `requirements.txt`.


## Cite
In case of use of the publication, dataset or repository, please cite:

Martinez-Rau, L.S., Chelotti, J.O., Ferrero, M. et al. Daylong acoustic recordings of grazing and rumination activities in dairy cows. Sci Data 10, 782 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-023-02673-3

Or use the following bib style:

@article{martinez2023daylong,
  title={Daylong Acoustic Recordings of Grazing and Rumination Activities in Dairy Cows},
  author={Martinez-Rau, Luciano Sebastian and Chelotti, Jos{\'e} Omar and Ferrero, Mariano and Galli, Julio and Utsumi, Santiago and Planisich, Alejandra and Vignolo, Leandro and Giovanini, Leonardo and Rufiner, Hugo Leonardo},
  journal={Scientific Data},
volumen={10},
  pages={782},
  year={2023},
doi={https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-023-02673-3},
publisher={Nature Publishing Group}
}